# Penny Project by Ruihang Fang, Chunyang Cao

## Penney's Game and the two variations
This project studies two versions of the Humble–Nishiyama Randomness Game, which is a form of playing cards of Penney’s Game. In Penney’s Game, both players first choose a sequence of length 3, and then outcomes are generated until one player’s sequence appears first. One special feature of this game is that it is nontransitive, which means Player 2 can often choose a sequence that has a probabilistic advantage based on Player 1’s choice.

In our project, the original coin tosses are replaced by a standard 52-card deck, and only the color of each card is recorded as red or black. We study two scoring methods for this game. The first is the original version, which is scored by the number of tricks won. The second is Professor Smith's version, which is scored by the total number of cards won. Through a large number of simulations and heatmaps, we compare the results of these two versions and analyze the more advantageous strategies for both players in different situations.

## How to run the code
In your terminal, locate to the directory where the respository at, then type "uv run main.py". It will ask you how many additional decks you want to add, if you don't want to add any, just hit return. Once it finished running, it will tell you the total number decks generated and processed.

## Findings
The results of our project align with those already published for the original H-N game. The win percentage of the second player is larger. From the By-Tricks heatmap, the second player wins 99% of games for BBB versus RBB, which is close to the original paper's result of 99.5%. By comparing the two versions of the game, in some cases, such as RRB versus BRB, the possibility to win for By-Cards is lower, but generally, the win percentage shows an upward trend for By-Cards version. From the the two heatmaps we can see, for BBB versus RBB, the win percentage in By-Cards version is 100%. For By-Tricks version, the optimal strategy for the first player should avoid choosing BBB or RRR patterns, because the second player can choose RBB or BRR to achieve a high win percentage. This can be seen from our results that in those situations, the win percentage of the second player in nearly 100%. For the second player, no matter what the first player choose, the second and third card should be the first and second color chosen by the first player. As shown in the heatmaps, for each row, the highest win percentage choice follow this strategy. The optimal strategy for By-Card version is the same as By-Tricks version because there's no huge difference between two version because from the results, changing the method doesn't cause a reversal in which player wins.